>> Will Sentance: Let's also see
on that same note, arrays and
functions are also objects.
So,they get all the access to
the functions and prototypes.
But, they also get extra goodies.
Before we do this, I'm going to tell
you that when JavaScript loads,
there's another thing that it gets for
free.
Which is, another function object
combo with the label function.
And this function object combo,
yeah, it's a function hopefully.
But of course it's therefore also,
cuz a function object combo
has all functions are.
And don't get confused by the fact
they've got out the case.
They're just function object combos, but
they're ones we get
built in to JavaScript.
This function in its object form,
>> Will Sentance: Has
what property, David?
>> David: Prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Prototype fantastic.
Yeah people forgive me for these slides.
This is a bit where I'm like, I just
want to make sure you know about this.
We're not gonna use this heavily, but
I really want this to have like
the core diagrammed version of what is
the most like intricate,
finicky parts of JavaScript, okay?
It also has an object.
>> Will Sentance: Sort on prototype.
And that has in it,
a whole bunch of functions.
It's got toString.
All the functions that we hope,
any function will have access to.
You know like, multiply by 2.call.
But where is that call coming from?
It's not my multiply by two object.
Multiply by 2.2 string,
where's that two string coming from?
Well, we'll play this out in a second.
I just want to lay this out to start with.
Two string, it's got cool on it,
that functions have access to.
Besides cool anyone who,
anyone think of others?
>> David: Bind.
>> Will Sentance: Bind, fantastic, yeah.
Who's to bind and there's apply.
Yeah, I think that there's two others.
It's very few others.
Okay, so not everything in orange,
everything surrounded by orange.
We did not declare,
it was put in there for us.
As soon we turn Jarvis Word on.
Okay, so now let's walk through this
code knowing that these bits are here.
Line one, Elliott, what are doing?
>> Elliott: We are declaring
a function multiplied by two.
>> Will Sentance: No,
I've got no room in my memory.
Okay, declaring a function multiply
by two, help me out here man.
It's a function.
>> Elliott: Object.
>> Will Sentance: Object combo exactly,
and it's at this point like it's not,
we got it.
Exactly, and the object, because it's
a function-object, well, we know
it has a prototype object as well, but
we don't probably use that people, right?
We don't use that bit unless we
call 2 with a new keyword in front,
which gives us our objects that have
a link to that prototype object.
Otherwise we never use this bit.
It's a bit redundant, it's kind of weird
why we always have it there just in case.
That if we ever were to try to run
this function with a new keyword
return out objects, which will
always have a link to this object.
We would never otherwise
use it I don't think maybe.
Okay, now things get interesting.
Multiply by 2.2 string.
Multiply By2.
[BLANK_AUDIO To String
>> Will Sentance: Hard line here.
Terry, talk me through the lookup process.
>> Terry: Execution context for-
>> Will Sentance: Well,
we've gotta find that thing first.
I don't even know where it is.
Let's do the lookup process.
Where's multiplyBy2?
>> Terry: In global.
>> Will Sentance: In global, excellent,
Elliot which bit of mode [INAUDIBLE].
The function or the object?
>> Terry: The object.
>> Will Sentance: The object, see?
.notation, it may see an execution
on it on the end here, but
it's not we've got to go find this
thing whatever it is, two string.
We look for it on the associated object.
Because when we use dot notation,
we look, just like when we do multiply by
2.prototype, we'd find this empty object.
We're gonna go multiply by 2.string and
we're looking through the properties
of multiply by two in its object form.
Chris, do we see something
called to string?
>> Chris: No.
>> Will Sentance: No.
It's not there.
>> Will Sentance: Do we panic?
It's an object, so what property
does it automatically have, David?
>> Chris: Proto.
>> Will Sentance: Proto,
all objects have _proto_.
Now, where, David, do you think this _,
_ is gonna refer off to?
>> David: To the console object?
>> Will Sentance: That
would be thoughtful.
But this here, is a function object combo
where we want this function to have
access to certain bonus functions that
are only available to functions,
but not available to objects.
So our object we made earlier, that points
off to this Object, because we want it to
have access to the objects specific
methods, like has owned property.
But this, multiplied by two is a function
that happens to have the attached object,
and that means we want our function
to have access to some things which
are specific to functions, like call,
bind, and apply into string.
So David, do you wanna take another
shot at where you think that proto,
which object full of functions
it might point off to.
>> David: The function.
>> Will Sentance: To
the function.prototype object.
Off it goes,
>> Will Sentance: To
the function.prototype object,
and that means.
Seht told me through the actual lookup
we're gonna have now, when I try and
run toString on multiplyBy2, hoping to
find there's a function called toString.
>> David: Can we just do it?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, we did already.
You told me through the whole way,
you got me.
>> David: Okay.
>> Will Sentance: So up toString on
the multiplyBy2 object, If I choose
object, it doesn't have a function.
>> David: Yeah, doesn't find it.
>> Will Sentance: It
looks in the prototype,
which is-
>> David: It
looks-
>> Will Sentance: Proto-
>> David: Which is
linked to the functions.prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Functions.prototype
object, where was it find?
>> David: toString.
>> Will Sentance: toString.
>> Will Sentance: I it grabs this code and
runs it.
Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: Function,
well, what about, though,
if I want to now use, this is so brutal.
What if I now want to
use my function that was
available to object via the protocol
reference to object.protoype?
Maybe now I don't get access to those
Maybe I can't do multiplyBy2.hasOwn.
Hm, maybe I can't do
multiplyBy2.hasOwnProperty.
I don't know what we're putting in, score.
Maybe I can't do this line now.
Let's see, raise your hand if you wanna
take a shot at the journey of finding or
not finding this.
Nick, go ahead, my friend.
>> Nick: So it looks for
multiply by 2 in the memory.
>> Will Sentance: Finds it.
>> Nick: And then it looks for
has own property in it.
>> Will Sentance: That has own property?
>> Nick: No.
No, but.
>> Nick: But
it goes see what proto is referencing,
which is the function prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic.
I'm even coarse about saying that it's
the function.prototype object, yeah.
>> Nick: .prototype object, and then
looks for, has its own property in there.
>> Will Sentance: Is this it?
>> Nick: No, it's not there.
>> Will Sentance: But what do you think
this object might have on it, hidden?
>> Nick: Its own proto,
which references the-
>> Will Sentance: Perfect
>> Nick: Object.
>> Will Sentance: Can we give
Nick a round of applause?
That was excellent man.
[APPLAUSE] One of the hardest things.
Fantastic man, exactly that proto,
which references up to
this prototype object.
Where what do we find?
>> Will Sentance: Property and
we can use it.
Now we see it's called a prototype chain.
It is JavaScripts prototypal nature
that when it doesn't find something on
the first object, it looks to its
protoreference to another object,
doesn't find it on that one,
it's still checks the proto.
What is this object?
So we didn't, suppose we add and
multiply by, I haven't done this before,
but let's say multiply by 2.,
I don't know, increase.
Let's do the journey.
multiplyBy2, look on this object version,
cuz it's dot notation.
Prototype's not it,
there's no increase function.
Look to its proto, which takes this
other object full of functions.
Increase, not there, increase, not there,
increase, not there Load to its proto.
Gosh, still doesn't have
one called increase.
Does this have a proto?
Well, of course it does,
but what is its proto?
Refer to null.
Stop looking.
There's no further up this chain.
And so, then, we get the [SOUND] error.
This method does not exist.
Okay people, that is the under the hood,
chain of proto references known
as JavaScript's prototype nature.
That gives objects functions
that would otherwise not been
available on them through
this referencing link up.
And what we do,
cuz we never lose access to these but-,
well we can actually override the access
to them but ,what we tend to do, is give
out objects access through their proto
to an object full of our own functions.
Knowing that that object full of functions
will have it's own reference up to this
object full of functions so
we don't lose access.
And we're gonna use that fact
to allow us to create objects
that the user would inherit.
I don't love this term in JavaScript,
but to get access to functions that were
available, to let's say we have user
objects, User 1, User 2, User 100.
That have certain properties and certain
functions available to them, but now we
want to create in our app, slightly more
specific types of users called paid users.
We have paid User 1,
paid User 1 wants to have access to most
of the functions that users had access to.
User1 had access to,
User 20 had access to, but
may also wanna have specific functions
that only a paid user will get access
to like you know,
increase account balance.
If you're not a paid user,
you don't have an account balance.
So increase the account balance, but
it doesn't wanna lose the ability to also
increase its score in our quiz game.
So maybe we can have functions that are
only available to one type of object and
then that set of functions
would have a link up to another
set of functions one layer up.
So we get both of these, but
we have other objects which only get
access to that top layer of functions.
Okay, and that is subclassing.